General rules
Compiling
• Compile your code with c++ and the flags -Wall -Wextra -Werror
• Your code should still compile if you add the flag -std=c++98
Formatting and naming conventions
• The exercise directories will be named this way: ex00, ex01, ... , exn
• Name your files, classes, functions, member functions and attributes as required in
the guidelines.
• Write class names in UpperCamelCase format. Files containing class code will
always be named according to the class name. For instance:
ClassName.hpp/ClassName.h, ClassName.cpp, or ClassName.tpp. Then, if you
have a header file containing the definition of a class "BrickWall" standing for a
brick wall, its name will be BrickWall.hpp.
• Unless specified otherwise, every output message must end with a newline character
and be displayed to the standard output.
• Goodbye Norminette! No coding style is enforced in the C++ modules. You can
follow your favorite one. But keep in mind that code your peer evaluators can't
understand is code they can't grade. Do your best to write clean and readable code.
Allowed/Forbidden
You are not coding in C anymore. Time to C++! Therefore:
• You are allowed to use almost everything from the standard library. Thus, instead
of sticking to what you already know, it would be smart to use the C++-ish versions
of the C functions you are used to as much as possible.
• However, you can't use any other external library. It means C++11 (and derived
forms) and Boost libraries are forbidden. The following functions are forbidden
too: *printf(), *alloc() and free(). If you use them, your grade will be 0 and
that's it.
3
C++ - Module 06 C++ casts
• Note that unless explicitly stated otherwise, the using namespace <ns_name> and
friend keywords are forbidden. Otherwise, your grade will be -42.
• You are allowed to use the STL only in Modules 08 and 09. That means:
no Containers (vector/list/map, and so forth) and no Algorithms (anything that
requires including the <algorithm> header) until then. Otherwise, your grade will
be -42.
A few design requirements
• Memory leakage occurs in C++ too. When you allocate memory (by using the new
keyword), you must avoid memory leaks.
• From Module 02 to Module 09, your classes must be designed in the Orthodox
Canonical Form, except when explicitly stated otherwise.
• Any function implementation put in a header file (except for function templates)
means 0 to the exercise.
• You should be able to use each of your headers independently from others. Thus,
they must include all the dependencies they need. However, you must avoid the
problem of double inclusion by adding include guards. Otherwise, your grade will
be 0.
Read me
• You can add some additional files if you need to (i.e., to split your code). As these
assignments are not verified by a program, feel free to do so as long as you turn in
the mandatory files.
• Sometimes, the guidelines of an exercise look short but the examples can show
requirements that are not explicitly written in the instructions.
• Read each module completely before starting! Really, do it.
• By Odin, by Thor! Use your brain!!!
Regarding the Makefile for C++ projects, the same rules as in C apply
(see the Norm chapter about the Makefile).
You will have to implement a lot of classes. This can seem tedious,
unless you're able to script your favorite text editor.
4
C++ - Module 06 C++ casts
You are given a certain amount of freedom to complete the exercises.
However, follow the mandatory rules and don't be lazy. You would
miss a lot of useful information! Do not hesitate to read about
theoretical concepts.
5
Chapter III
Additional Rule
The following rule applies to the entire module and is mandatory.
For each exercise, type conversion must be handled using a specific type of casting.
Your choice will be reviewed during the defense.

Exercise 00: Conversion of scalar
types
Exercise 00
Conversion of scalar types
Turn-in directory: ex00/
Files to turn in: Makefile, *.cpp, *.{h, hpp}
Allowed functions: Any function to convert from a string to an int, a float,
or a double. This will help, but won't do the whole job.
Write a class ScalarConverter that will contain only one static method "convert"
that will take as a parameter a string representation of a C++ literal in its most common
form and output its value in the following series of scalar types:
• char
• int
• float
• double
As this class doesn't need to store anything at all, it must not be instantiable by users.
Except for char parameters, only the decimal notation will be used.
Examples of char literals: 'c', 'a', ...
To make things simple, please note that non-displayable characters shouldn't be used as
inputs. If a conversion to char is not displayable, print an informative message.
Examples of int literals: 0, -42, 42...
Examples of float literals: 0.0f, -4.2f, 4.2f...
You have to handle these pseudo-literals as well (you know, for science): -inff, +inff,
and nanf.
Examples of double literals: 0.0, -4.2, 4.2...
You have to handle these pseudo-literals as well (you know, for fun): -inf, +inf, and
nan.
10
C++ - Module 06 C++ casts
Write a program to test that your class works as expected.
You have to first detect the type of the literal passed as a parameter, convert it from
string to its actual type, then convert it explicitly to the three other data types. Lastly,
display the results as shown below.
If a conversion does not make any sense or overflows, display a message to inform
the user that the type conversion is impossible. Include any header you need in order
to handle numeric limits and special values.
./convert 0
char: Non displayable
int: 0
float: 0.0f
double: 0.0
./convert nan
char: impossible
int: impossible
float: nanf
double: nan
./convert 42.0f
char: '*'
int: 42
float: 42.0f
double: 42.0
11
Chapter VI
Exercise 01: Serialization
Exercise : 01
Serialization
Turn-in directory: ex01/
Files to turn in: Makefile, *.cpp, *.{h, hpp}
Forbidden functions: None
Implement a class Serializer, which will not be initializable by the user in any way,
with the following static methods:
uintptr_t serialize(Data* ptr);
It takes a pointer and converts it to the unsigned integer type uintptr_t.
Data* deserialize(uintptr_t raw);
It takes an unsigned integer parameter and converts it to a pointer to Data.
Write a program to test that your class works as expected.
You must create a non-empty (meaning it has data members) Data structure.
Use serialize() on the address of the Data object and pass its return value to
deserialize(). Then, ensure the return value of deserialize() compares equal to the
original pointer.
Do not forget to turn in the files of your Data structure.
12
Chapter VII
Exercise 02: Identify real type
Exercise : 02
Identify real type
Turn-in directory: ex02/
Files to turn in: Makefile, *.cpp, *.{h, hpp}
Forbidden functions: std::typeinfo
Implement a Base class that has a public virtual destructor only. Create three empty
classes A, B, and C, that publicly inherit from Base.
These four classes don't have to be designed in the Orthodox
Canonical Form.
Implement the following functions:
Base * generate(void);
It randomly instantiates A, B, or C and returns the instance as a Base pointer. Feel free
to use anything you like for the random choice implementation.
void identify(Base* p);
It prints the actual type of the object pointed to by p: "A", "B", or "C".
void identify(Base& p);
It prints the actual type of the object referenced by p: "A", "B", or "C". Using a pointer
inside this function is forbidden.
Including the typeinfo header is forbidden.
Write a program to test that everything works as expected.

Introduction
Please comply with the following rules:

- Remain polite, courteous, respectful and constructive throughout the
evaluation process. The well-being of the community depends on it.

- Identify with the student or group whose work is evaluated the possible
dysfunctions in their project. Take the time to discuss and debate the
problems that may have been identified.

- You must consider that there might be some differences in how your peers
might have understood the project's instructions and the scope of its
functionalities. Always keep an open mind and grade them as honestly as
possible. The pedagogy is useful only and only if the peer-evaluation is
done seriously.

Guidelines
- Only grade the work that was turned in the Git repository of the evaluated
student or group.

- Double-check that the Git repository belongs to the student(s). Ensure that
the project is the one expected. Also, check that 'git clone' is used in an
empty folder.

- Check carefully that no malicious aliases was used to fool you and make you
evaluate something that is not the content of the official repository.

- To avoid any surprises and if applicable, review together any scripts used
to facilitate the grading (scripts for testing or automation).

- If you have not completed the assignment you are going to evaluate, you have
to read the entire subject prior to starting the evaluation process.

- Use the available flags to report an empty repository, a non-functioning
program, a Norm error, cheating, and so forth.
In these cases, the evaluation process ends and the final grade is 0,
or -42 in case of cheating. However, except for cheating, student are
strongly encouraged to review together the work that was turned in, in order
to identify any mistakes that shouldn't be repeated in the future.

- You should never have to edit any file except the configuration file if it
exists. If you want to edit a file, take the time to explicit the reasons
with the evaluated student and make sure both of you are okay with this.

- You must also verify the absence of memory leaks. Any memory allocated on
the heap must be properly freed before the end of execution.
You are allowed to use any of the different tools available on the computer,
such as leaks, valgrind, or e_fence. In case of memory leaks, tick the
appropriate flag.

Attachments
 subject.pdf
Preliminary tests
If cheating is suspected, the evaluation stops here. Use the "Cheat" flag to report it. Take this decision calmly, wisely, and please, use this button with caution.

Prerequisites

The code must compile with c++ and the flags -Wall -Wextra -Werror
Don't forget this project has to follow the C++98 standard. Thus,
C++11 (and later) functions or containers are NOT expected.

Any of these means you must not grade the exercise in question:

A function is implemented in a header file (except for template functions).
A Makefile compiles without the required flags and/or another compiler than c++.
Any of these means that you must flag the project with "Forbidden
Function":

Use of a "C" function (*alloc, *printf, free).
Use of a function not allowed in the exercise guidelines.
Use of "using namespace <ns_name>" or the "friend" keyword.
Use of an external library, or features from versions other than C++98.
Exercise 00: Conversion of scalar types
This exercise is about using the static_cast.

Scalar conversion

Did the student create a class with a private constructor, and static
methods ?
Did the student use the static_cast to convert values?
Accept the use of implicit casts for promotion casts only.
Does the program work as required?

Anyway, please don't be too uncompromising towards the exercise's outputs
if the spirit of the exercise is respected.
Even if this exercise is wrong, continue the evaluation process.

Exercise 01: Serialization
This exercise is about using the reinterpret_cast.

Retyping of raw data

Does the program work as required?
Did the student create a class with a private constructor, and static
methods ?
The reinterpret_cast<> should be used twice:

First from data* to uintptr_t.
Then, from uintptr_t to data*.
And the resulting data struct should be usable.

Exercise 02: Identify real type
This exercise is about using the dynamic_cast.

Real type identification

Does the program work as required?
Check the code. Did the student use the dynamic_cast to identify the real
type?
void identify(Base* p) should check if the cast return is NULL.
void identify(Base& p) should use a try and catch block to check if the cast failed.

(In case you're wondering, the header <typeinfo> must not appear
anywhere.)
